Exercises

1. How would you define Machine Learning?
Machine Learning is about building systems that can learn from data.

2. Can you name four types of problems where it shines?
- Complex problems for which we have no algorithmic solution
- Replace multiples hard coded rules
- Build system's that adapt to fluctuating environments
- Help humans learn (data mining)

3. What is a labeled training set?
Is a dataset where the target variable is known.

4. What are the two most common supervised tasks?
- Classification
- Regression

5. Can you name four common unsupervised tasks?
- Clustering
- Visualization highlighting semantic clusters
- Dimensionality reduction
- Association rule learning

6. What type of Machine Learning algorithm would you use to allow a robot to walk in various unknown terrains?
Reinforcement Learning.

7. What type of algorithm would you use to segment your customers into multiple groups?
Unsupervised Learning.

8. Would you frame the problem of spam detection as a supervised learning problem or an unsupervised learning problem?
Supervised Learning.

9. What is an online learning system?
Is a system that adapts automatically as new data arrives.

10. What is out-of-core learning?
Is the scenario where we have a very large dataset, impossible to store in main memory, so the dataset is splitted into
several chunks to use the online learning system to train incrementally until the chunks end.

11. What type of learning algorithm relies on similarity measure to make predictions?
Instance-based.

12. What is the difference between a model parameter and a learning algorithm's hyperparameter?
The model parameter is one or more parameters founded by the learning algorithm, hyperparameter's
are parameters of the learning algorithm and not of the model generated by the algorithm, and is used
to control the amount of regularization to apply.

13. What do model-based learning algorithms search for? What is the most common strategy they use to succeed?
How do they make predictions?
Model-based learning algorithms search for optimal values for some parameters such that the model generalize
well on new data. The system is trained on a training set by minimizing a cost function, plus a penalty
to reduce the complexity of the model if regularization is used.
To make predictions, the parameters founded by the learning algorithm are used.

14. Can you name four of the main challenges in Machine Learning?
- Lack of data
- Poor data quality
- Nonrepresentative data
- Feature engineering
- Define the appropriate algorithm making suppositions about the nature of the data

15. If your model performs great on the training data but generalizes poorly to new instances, what is happening?
Can you name three possible solutions?
Overfitting:
- Get more data
- Reduce noise of the data
- Simplify the model (selecting a simpler algorithm,
reducing the number of parameters or features used, or regularizing the model)

16. What is a test set, and why should you want to use it?
Is a dataset used to evaluate the performance of the model based on some metric,
before the model is launched in production.

17. What is the purpose of a validation set?
Used to compare models. It makes it possible to select the best model and tune the hyperparameter's.

18. What is the train-dev set, when you need it, and how do you use it?
Is a new set used in conjunction with the train, validation and test sets, if the model perform bad in a
unique set (train-dev or validation), is probably a mismatch between the data in the set's,
and you should try to improve the training data to make it more like the other set's.

19. What can go wrong if you tune hyperparameter's using the test set?
You risk overfitting the test set.